.TH ANALYZEVMCORE "8" "12 Mar 2020" "supportutils" "Support Utilities Manual"
.SH NAME
analyzevmcore - Creates an analysis file for kernel cores
.SH SYNOPSIS
analyzevmcore [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates an analysis file (scc_analyzevmcore_<CORE_DATE>.txt) for all
kernel cores found on the system. This analysis file is automatically copied
to /var/log, and included in supportconfig's crash.txt file for further
analysis by Technical Support Services.

In order to create the analysis, this script requires the kernel (vmlinux-*)
and the debuginfo kernel (vmlinux-*.debug) which match the kernel version which
created the core.

.SS KERNEL VERSION
The kernel version is determined automatically if a README.txt file exists in
the core directory. This file is typically created during core generation, and
should contain the following string:

   Kernel version : $(uname -r)

If the README.txt is missing, the kernel version is taken from an existing kernel
file (vmlinux-*) found in the core directory (also typically copied into the
core directory during core creation). If no kernel file is found in the core
directory, the kernel version is taken from the currently running kernel.
NOTE - If this is incorrect, the analysis will either fail, or be incomplete.

To override the automatic kernel version detection process, a README.txt can
be manually created in the core directory. In this case, the kernel version
must be specified exactly as 

   Kernel version : <correct version, i.e. 3.0.13-0.27-default>

The kernel version can also be specified on the command line through using the
-k option to point to a specific kernel file.

.SS DEBUGINFO KERNEL
This debuginfo kernel contains symbols stripped from the normally running kernel.
These symbols are required for core analysis. The debuginfo kernel will only be
found in the following ways:

.PP
.IP 1.
If the kernel-*-debuginfo RPM is installed on the system, the vmlinux-*.debug file
will be found in /usr/lib/debug/boot. The kernel-*-debuginfo RPM can be installed
through the Debuginfo update channel using:

   zypper in kernel-<FLAVOR>-debuginfo

For additional information on installing the Debuginfo update channel, 
see: \fBhttp://www.suse.com/support/kb/doc.php?id=3074997\fP

.IP 2.
If a debuginfo kernel is not found in /usr/lib/debug/boot, the vmlinux-*.debug file
will also be found if it exists in the same same directory as the normal kernel,
or the same directory as the core. As this is not normally the case, the
vmlinux-*.debug file will first need to be extracted from the kernel-*-debuginfo RPM.
This can be done manually, or automatically through the following parameter:

   -d [kernel-*-debuginfo.rpm]


The correct kernel-*-debuginfo RPM can be downloaded through the SUSE Customer Center,
at the following urls:

     Package Database:   \fBhttps://scc.suse.com/packages\fP
     Patch Database:     \fBhttps://scc.suse.com/patches\fP
.PP
.RE
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
This screen
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Analyze the specified vmcore directory, rather than all cores found on the system.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIRPM\fR
This option extracts the vmlinux-*.debug file from the specified kernel-*-debuginfo
RPM into the core directory
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIvmlinux\fR
The vmlinux-[version] file which created the core. This can always be found in /boot,
and must match the kernel version which created the core. If this is in the current
directory (e.g. /var/crash<date>), this parameter can be omitted.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Remove and recreate existing analysis files. 
.SH AUTHORS
.RS
Mike Latimer <mlatimer@suse.com>
.RE
.RS
Jason Record <jason.record@suse.com>
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
