.TH CHKBIN "8" "12 Mar 2020" "supportutils" "Support Utilities Manual"
.SH NAME
chkbin - Binary Check Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
chkbin [\fB\-ah\fR] </path/to/file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Checks the RPM package owner of the file being checked. It also checks the RPM package owner for each of the file's shared library dependencies. It then runs an rpm verify on each of the unique RPM packages associated with the file and it's shared library dependencies.

This tool will create a text file in the default /var/log directory. Supportconfig will gather chkbin log files if present. Please attach the chkbin log files or the supportconfig with chkbin files to your open service request.

If you cannot attach the file to the service request, then email it to the support engineer assigned to your service request.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
This screen
.TP
\fB\-a\fR 
Include all: The system library cache and all open files
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please submit bug fixes or comments via: 
.B http://en.opensuse.org/Supportutils#Reporting_Bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Record <jrecord@suse.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
