.TH GETAPPCORE "8" "10 Mar 2020" "supportutils" "Support Utilities Manual"
.SH NAME
getappcore - Get Application Core File
.SH SYNOPSIS
getappcore [OPTIONS] -j PID | /path/to/core/file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates an archive containing an application core, and all files
required to analyze it - including the binary which created the core, 
and all required shared libraries. Included in the archive is a logfile
containing RPM version information for further investigation by SUSE. 
You must specify the filename or the journal PID of the application core 
you want to submit. The core file must be provided uncompressed. The PID
can be determined by the command "coredumpctl list". Since systemd creates
compressed core files by default, you should almost always prefer '-j <PID>'
nowadays. You can safely omit the '-b' option then.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
The help screen
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIpath\fR
Path to the binary which generated the application core file
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fIsrnum\fR
SUSE Service Request number associated with this issue
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fIPID\fR
Specifies a coredump PID number from the journal to extract, instead of specifying a core file on the file system
.TP
\fB\-u\fR 
Automatically uploads archive to the SUSE FTP server using HTTPS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR 
Automatically uploads archive to the SUSE FTP server using FTPES
.TP
\fB\-v\fR 
Enable verbose messages
.SH EXAMPLES
.RE
.RS
.B getappcore -j 1345
.RE
.RS
.B getappcore -ur 00123456 -j 2344
.RE
.RS
.B getappcore -ur 00123456 -b /bin/rpm /core.15832
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.RE
.RS
Jason Record <jason.record@suse.com>
.RE
.RS
Mike Latimer <mlatimer@suse.com>
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
