.\" Copyright 2010 Jason Record <jrecord@suse.com>
.\" 
.TH scplugin.rc 3 "06 Oct 2010" "scplugin.rc" "Supportconfig Plugin Library Manual"
.SH NAME
scplugin.rc - Supportconfig Plugin Resource File
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B section_header <string>
.br
.B pconf_files <list>
.br
.B plog_files <int> <list>
.br
.B plugin_message <string>
.br
.B plugin_tag <label> <string>
.br
.B plugin_command <command>
.br
.B validate_rpm <rpm_name>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Supportconfig plugin development library for bash script plugins.

.BR section_header ()
- Prints a string with a Section identifier to help organize plugin content.

.BR pconf_files ()
- Gets the entire file for each configuration file in <list>, but excludes comments and blank lines.

.BR plog_files ()
- Gets the last <int> number of lines specified for each log file in <list>.

.BR plugin_message ()
- Displays the message string.

.BR plugin_tag ()
- Displays the message string with the <label> inside the section line and the <string> in the comment area.

.BR plugin_command ()
- Runs the specified command. Command pipes are supported. Returns the value of the command's exit code.

.BR validate_rpm ()
- Runs an rpm -V on the specified RPM package. If no exceptions are found, it's marked Passed, otherwise it's marked WARNING.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please submit bug fixes or comments via: 
.B http://en.opensuse.org/Supportutils#Reporting_Bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Record <jrecord@suse.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR supportconfig (8)
.BR supportconfig.conf (5)
.BR section_header (3)
.BR pconf_files (3)
.BR plog_files (3)
.BR plugin_message (3)
.BR plugin_tag (3)
.BR plugin_command (3)
.BR validate_rpm (3)

