.TH SUPPORTCONFIG.CONF 5 "10 Feb 2021" "supportutils" "Support Utilities Manual"
.SH NAME
supportconfig.conf \- 
.BR supportconfig (8)
configuration file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I SC_CONF
.RS
You can use the SC_CONF environment variable to specify an alternate configuration file path.
.RE
.RS
.B Example: export SC_CONF=/opt/supportconfig.conf
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Regular and additional options are used to turn a feature either on (1) or off (0), whereas variable options usually have differing values depending on the desired outcome. Running supportconfig -C will create a default /etc/supportconfig.conf. The format for setting an option is:
.TP
TOKEN=value
.SS Regular Options
.TP
Each regular option is described with the TOKEN used, a description, the \fBfilename\fR containing the information and the default value in (parenthesis). Each option can be included (-i) or excluded (-x) from the command line. Use -F to see a list of the feature keywords.
.PD 0
.TP
.TP 18
OPTION_APPARMOR
AppArmor information. \fBsecurity-apparmor.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_AUDIT
Auditing information. \fBsecurity-audit.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_AUTOFS
autofs information. \fBfs-autofs.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_BOOT
Information related to booting and the kernel. \fBboot.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_BTRFS
Information related to the B-tree file system. \fBfs-btrfs.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_CIMOM
CIMOM and OpenWBEM related information. \fBcimom.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_CRASH
Information related to capturing a system core dump. \fBcrash.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_CRON
Information related to cron and at. \fBcron.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DAEMONS
SystemD service information. \fBsystemd.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DHCP
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) information. \fBdhcp.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DISK
Disk, file system mounts and partition information. \fBfs-diskio.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DNS
Domain Name Service information. \fBdns.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DOCKER
Docker virtualization information.  \fBdocker.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_DRBD
Distributed Replicated Block Device information. \fBdrbd.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_ENV
System environment information, including sysctl and root's environment. \fBenv.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_ETC
Recursively gets *.conf files, along with various other configuration files in /etc. \fBetc.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_EVMS
Enterprise Volume Management System related information. \fBevms.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_HA
Heartbeat/high availability cluster information. \fBha.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_HAPROXY
Heartbeat/high availability proxy cluster information. \fBhaproxy.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_HISTORY
root user shell history. \fBhistory.txt\fR (0)
.TP
OPTION_IB
InfiniBand information. Only available with SLES11 or greater. \fBib.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_ISCSI
iSCSI target and initiator information. \fBfs-iscsi.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_KVM
KVM virtualization related information. Available in SLES11 SP1 or newer, otherwise ignored. \fBkvm.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_LDAP
LDAP related information, including a root DSE search. \fBldap.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_LVM
Linux Volume Management related information. \fBlvm.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_LXC
Linux Container virtualization information. \fBlxc.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_MEM
Memory related information. \fBmemory.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_MOD
System kernel module information. \fBmodules.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_MPIO
Native device mapper multipathing information. \fBmpio.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_NET
Network related information, including firewall rules. \fBnetwork.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_NFS
Network File System related information. \fBnfs.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_NTP
Network Time Protocol related information. \fBntp.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_NVME
Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) information. \fBnvme.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_OCFS2
OCFS2 file system related information. \fBocfs2.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_OFILES
List of all open files using lsof. \fBopen-files.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_PRINT
Printing and CUPS related information. \fBprint.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_PROC
Includes key /proc file content. \fBproc.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_TUNED
Gathers dynamic adaptive system tuning daemon information. \fBtuned.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SAM
Supportability Analysis Module report. NOTE: This takes up to 10 minutes to complete. \fBsam.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SAR
System Activity Reporting related information, including copies of the SAR data files. \fBsar.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SLERT
SLES Real Time kernel related information. \fBslert.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SLP
Service Location Protocol related information. \fBslp.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SMART
Self-Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting Technology related information for hard disks. 
\fBWARNING:\fR Some hard disk controllers and drives do not behave kindly. Probing SMART data has been known to change file systems to read only mode or even hang the server. Make sure probing SMART data works in your environment before enabling this option. \fBfs-smartmon.txt\fR (0)
.TP
OPTION_SMB
Samba and CIFS related information. \fBsamba.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SMT
Subscription Management Tool (SMT) related information. \fBsmt.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SRAID
Software RAID related information. \fBfs-softraid.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SSH
Secure Shell server information. \fBssh.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SSSD
System Security Services Daemon information.\fBsssd.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SYSCONFIG
Configuration files found in /etc/sysconfig. \fBsysconfig.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_SYSFS
Gathers the contents of all files in /sys. \fBsysfs.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_UDEV
UDEV device manager related information. \fBudev.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_UFILES
Additional user included files. Any file listed in /usr/lib/supportconfig/additional-files.list will be included in the fs-files-additional.txt file when supportconfig is run. The additional-files.list file must be owned by root and have 0600 or 0400 permisisons. Include the full file path of the files you want included. Any binary files will be base64 encoded.  \fBfs-files-additional.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_UP
Update client related information. \fBupdates.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_WEB
Web server and web related information. \fBweb.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_X
X graphical system related information. \fBx.txt\fR (1)
.TP
OPTION_XEN
XEN virtualization related information. \fBxen.txt\fR (1)
.TP
FORCE_OPTION_PAM
Pluggable Authentication Module related information, including user account information. It is disabled in compliance with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). To consent to supportconfig collecting this information, set FORCE_OPTION_PAM=1. \fBpam.txt\fR (0)
.PD
.SS Additional Regular Options
.TP
Each additional regular option is described with the TOKEN used, a description, the \fBstartup option\fR used to set it, the \fBfilename\fR if any and the default value in (parenthesis). If no startup option is listed, then you must set this option in the supportconfig.conf file.
.TP
ADD_OPTION_FSLIST
A full file list using find from the root of the filesystem. \fB\-L\fR, \fBfs-files.txt\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_LOGS
Includes the entire log file, including comments, instead of just VAR_OPTION_LINE_COUNT lines of it. Additional rotated logs are included if available. \fB\-l\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_LOCAL_ONLY
Disables curl checks to SUSE update servers. By default external SUSE update servers are checked. \fB\-c\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_MINDISK
Minimizes the amount of disk information and detailed scanning. \fB\-d\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_MAXYAST
Normally VAR_OPTION_LINE_COUNT lines are gathered from all /var/log/YaST2/* files. This option gathers each entire file.
 \fB\-y\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_RPMV
Runs an rpm -V on every installed RPM package. This takes some time to complete. \fB\-v\fR, \fBrpm-verify.txt\fR (0)
.TP
ADD_OPTION_SLP
Normally only the base SLP service types are listed. This option allows you to query each of the discovered service types individually. \fB\-s\fR, \fBslp.txt\fR (0)
.PD
.SS Variable Options
.TP
Each variable option is described with the TOKEN used, a description, the \fBstartup option\fR used to set the TOKEN, and the default value in (parenthesis).
.TP
VAR_OPTION_BIN_TIMEOUT_SEC
The number of seconds to wait before ignoring a timed command. Commands that have been timed will show a progress dot '.' on the screen every 30 seconds while waiting for the command to complete. If the command does not complete within the VAR_OPTION_BIN_TIMEOUT_SEC period, it is ignored and the supportconfig moves on to gather additional information. If the command completes before supportconfig finishes, it's output will be included in the tar ball. The timed command has been backgrounded and left running. You may need to kill this process, and the log file will identify what the process is. \fB\-T\fR (300)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_COMPANY
Company name to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-O\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_EMAIL
Contact's email address to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-E\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_NAME
Contact's name to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-N\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_PHONE
Contact's phone number to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-P\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_STOREID
Contact's company store identifier to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-W\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CONTACT_TERMINALID
Contact's company terminal identifier to include in the basic-environment.txt \fB\-M\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_CUSTOM_ARCH
Includes the string to create a custom tar ball filename in the format scc_<string> \fB\-B\fR (Not Set)
.RS

.RE
.RS
You can easily include supportconfig information in the tar ball filename with the supported string qualifiers listed below. 
All spaces are replaced with underscores. The -q and -u startup options automatically append "_%u" onto the filename, 
unless a %u is specified in the string already. A pre-existing archive directory or tar ball filename will also trigger 
appending a "_%u" onto the filename.
.RE
.RS
.B %r
- Service Request number
.RE
.RS
.B %s
- Server's hostname
.RE
.RS
.B %d
- Supportconfig run date
.RE
.RS
.B %t
- Supportconfig run time
.RE
.RS
.B %u
- A supportconfig unique identifier, UUID or mktemp with 30 places if uuidgen isn't found
.RE
.RS
.B %B
- The base filename options = %s_%d_%t
.RE
.RS

.RE
.RS
.B Examples:
.RE
.RS
The default supportconfig file format \fBscc_%B\fR or \fBscc_%s_%d_%t\fR yields "scc_hostname_100326_1105.tbz"
.RE
.RS
\fBsupportconfig \-B "before problem %s"\fR yields "scc_before_problem_hostname.tbz"
.RE
.RS
\fBsupportconfig \-B "testcase 1 %d-%t"\fR yields "scc_testcase_1_100326-1105.tbz"
.RE
.RS
\fBsupportconfig \-qB "testcase %d %t"\fR yields "scc_testcase_100326_1105_21a17f8c-13c2-44ff-b0ef-29b7fa7d91c0.tbz"
.RE
.RS
\fBsupportconfig \-B "testcase %d %t %u"\fR yields "scc_testcase_100326_1105_21a17f8c-13c2-44ff-b0ef-29b7fa7d91c0.tbz"
.RE
.RS
\fBsupportconfig \-B "%r bad" -r 12345678901\fR yields "scc_SR12345678901_bad.tbz"
.RE
.TP
VAR_OPTION_EXHASTIVE_MEM
Includes sysfs memory information on systems with 16TB of memory or more \fB\-J\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_DMESG
When enabled, supportconfig logs to /dev/kmsg instead of the system logs. \fBNone\fR (0)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_GPG_UID
The GPG recipient's user ID used to encrypt the supportconfig tar ball for more secure uploads. \fB\-G\fR (Not Set)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_HBREPORT_DIRS
The directories in which to look for hb_report tar balls with filenames that begin with hb_report, hb-report or hbreport and end in .tar.bz2. \fBNone\fR ("/tmp /root /var/log")
.TP
VAR_OPTION_HEADER_FILE
If VAR_OPTION_HEADER_FILE exists, it will be prepended to each supportconfig text file. Useful for including legal or instructional statements at the beginning of each file. \fBNone\fR (/usr/lib/supportconfig/header.txt)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_JOURNALCTL_LINE_COUNT
Sets the number of log lines to get for the current boot from journald. If the value is set to 0, all lines of the current boot log are retrieved. \fBNone\fR (10000)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_JOURNALCTL_MAX_BOOTS
When ADD_OPTION_LOGS is set, this value determines the maximum number of journald boot log entries to include in boot.txt. If the value is set to 0, all boot logs from the journal will be retrieved. \fBNone\fR (10)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_LINE_COUNT
The number of lines to include when getting a log file. Zero means get the entire file. \fB\-I\fR (500)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_LOG_DIRS
The supportconfig tar ball location. The first valid location in the list is always used. \fB\-R\fR ("/var/log /tmp")
.TP
VAR_OPTION_MSG_LINE_COUNT
When the system logs exceed the VAR_OPTION_MSG_MAXSIZE, only the VAR_OPTION_MSG_LINE_COUNT lines are retrieved. \fBNone\fR (200000)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_MSG_MAXSIZE
The maximum number of /var/log/messages lines to get. Zero means get the entire file. \fB\-X\fR (26214400)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_PENGINE_FILES_LIMIT
The maximum number of heartbeat policy engine log files to include in the supportconfig tar ball. \fB\-H\fR (250)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_RM_LOCAL_FILE
Removes the local supportconfig tar ball file when supportconfig completes. Useful when uploading the tar ball to another server and no local copy is wanted. \fBNone\fR (0)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_SBM
Screen buffer mode. Useful for third party applications running supportconfig. No status or progress is displayed on screen, just the current supportconfig gathering action. All status information is logged in supportconfig.txt. \fB\-b\fR (0)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_SAR_FILES_LIMIT
The maximum number of SAR data files to include in the supportconfig tar ball. \fB\-S\fR (30)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_SILENT
When set to 1, supportconfig runs in quiet mode. This option is useful if you plan on running regular supportconfigs in a cron job for example. \fB\-Q\fR (0)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_UNIQUE_FILE
When set to 1, supportconfig adds a unique identifier string to the tar ball filename. This option is usually not needed, but is useful for public upload sites, like SUSE or service providers. \fB\-q\fR (0)
.TP
VAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET
Specifies where the supportconfig tar ball will be uploaded, when using the \fB\-u\fR startup option. The default is SUSE's public secure FTPS upload server. You should use the \fB\-r\fR \fIsrnum\fR to specify the service request number for all tar balls uploaded to SUSE. \fB\-u\fR (SUSE_UPLOAD_NA_FTPES)
.RS

The following variables are defined for use as upload targets for both \fBVAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET\fR and \fBVAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET_ALT\fR:

.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_NA_HTTPS\fR Secure HTTPS uploads to SUSE's North American FTP Server
.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_NA_FTPES\fR Secure FTPS explicit uploads to SUSE's North American FTP Server
.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_NA_FTP\fR Unsecure FTP uploads to SUSE's North American FTP Server
.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_EMEA_HTTPS\fR Secure HTTPS uploads to SUSE's European FTP Server
.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_EMEA_FTPES\fR Secure FTPS explicit uploads to SUSE's European FTP Server
.RE
.RS
\fBSUSE_UPLOAD_EMEA_FTP\fR Unsecure FTP uploads to SUSE's European FTP Server
.RE
.RS

If you want to change the default \fB-u\fR upload target to SUSE's European FTP server, add the following to \fB/etc/supportconfig.conf\fR.

VAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET=${SUSE_UPLOAD_EMEA_FTPES}

.RE
.TP
VAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET_ALT
Specifies an alternate upload target where the supportconfig tar ball will be uploaded, when using the \fB\-a\fR startup option. You should use the \fB\-r\fR \fIsrnum\fR to specify the service request number for all tar balls uploaded to SUSE. \fB\-a\fR (SUSE_UPLOAD_NA_HTTPS)
.RS

If you want to change the default \fB-a\fR alternate upload target to SUSE's European FTP server, add the following to \fB/etc/supportconfig.conf\fR.

VAR_OPTION_UPLOAD_TARGET_ALT=${SUSE_UPLOAD_EMEA_HTTPS}

.RE
.TP
VAR_OPTION_WAIT_TRACE
Enables the wait trace verbose logging option. When enabled, a time stamp before and after each command or file logged in supportconfig is displayed.\fB\-w\fR (0)
.PD
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please submit bug fixes or comments via:
.B
http://en.opensuse.org/Supportutils#Reporting_Bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Record <jason.record@suse.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR supportconfig (8)
.BR scplugin.rc (3)
